README.md, before:

# Rustual Boy [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/emu-rs/rustual-boy.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/emu-rs/rustual-boy) [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ec29vne6uuh7tjtu/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/yupferris/rustual-boy/branch/master) [![Compabitility](https://img.shields.io/badge/compatibility-68%25-orange.svg)](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy#known-game-compatibility) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT%2FApache--2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy#license)

![Rustual Boy](media/logo.png)

A WIP Virtual Boy emulator in Rust.

## Status

This emulator is not quite complete, but covers quite a bit of the CPU, memory mapping, and video hardware. It also contains a basic command-line debugger supporting disassembly, mem dump, breakpoints, etc. Many ROM's are fully compatible so far, but there's still some fundamental things that aren't yet implemented, such as some floating point flags/exceptions, bit string op's, etc. There are also a few bugs lurking around :)

Performance isn't fantastic yet, but the emulator should be playable at least. YMMV. Naturally, I'd like to get the core emulation logic in place before focusing too much on that.

A more detailed status/compatibility section will be written when the emu is complete enough for it to be relevant.

## Screenshots

![screenie](media/screenshot.png)
![screenie](media/screenshot2.png)
![screenie](media/screenshot3.png)
![screenie](media/screenshot4.png)

## Known game compatibility

| Game | USA | JP | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 3-D Tetris | | N/A | Uses bit string ops |
| Bound High! | x | N/A | ROM is both USA+JP |
| Galactic Pinball | x | x | |
| Golf | | | Uses bit string ops |
| Insmouse No Yakata | N/A | x | |
| Jack Bros. | x | x | |
| Mario Clash | x | x | |
| Mario's Tennis | x | x | |
| Nester's Funky Bowling | | N/A | Uses bit string ops |
| Panic Bomber | x | x | |
| Red Alarm | | | Uses bit string ops |
| SD Gundam Dimension War | N/A | x | |
| Space Invaders Virtual Collection | N/A | | Lazers aren't visible on most of the screen in "Virtual 3D" mode |
| Space Squash | N/A | | Game doesn't start; seems to be waiting on an interrupt (see commits [7423524](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy/commit/74235249a1abfca8d4b3d80e8c3c6b37230679a2) and [0ff9c61](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy/commit/0ff9c61efb188832680292a11c1a24c5c4f25360) for some investigation) |
| Teleroboxer | x | x | |
| V-Tetris | N/A | x | |
| Vertical Force | | | Enemies/powerups appear/disappear, first boss disappears and the game softlocks |
| Virtual Bowling | N/A | | Some graphical glitches and slowdowns in the intro sequence, possibly other bugs |
| Virtual Boy Wario Land | x | x | |
| Virtual Fishing | N/A | x | |
| Virtual Lab | N/A | x | |
| Virtual League Baseball | x | x | |
| Waterworld | x | N/A | |

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

Commit message:

Update readme, add CoC + contributing doc

README.md, after:

# Rustual Boy [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/emu-rs/rustual-boy.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/emu-rs/rustual-boy) [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ec29vne6uuh7tjtu/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/yupferris/rustual-boy/branch/master) [![Compabitility](https://img.shields.io/badge/compatibility-68%25-orange.svg)](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy#known-game-compatibility) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT%2FApache--2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy#license)

![Rustual Boy](media/logo.png)

## Description

Rustual Boy is a [Virtual Boy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_Boy) emulator. It can be used to play existing Virtual Boy games, as well as be a helpful development/debugging tool for homebrew for this platform.

The name "Rustual Boy" is a [portmanteau](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portmanteau) of the words "Rust" and "Virtual Boy". Ok, the "Virtual Boy" part was obvious, but why "Rust"? In fact, Rustual Boy is written in the [Rust programming language](https://www.rust-lang.org/en-US/) - a "systems programming language that runs blazingly fast, prevents segfaults, and guarantees thread safety." Rust is a wonderful language with a thriving community, and as such provides a fantastic platform for an emulation project!

## Screenshots

![screenie](media/screenshot.png)
![screenie](media/screenshot2.png)
![screenie](media/screenshot3.png)
![screenie](media/screenshot4.png)

## Status

While Rustual Boy's core emulation is nearly complete [compatibility-wise](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy#known-game-compatibility), the project is still quite young, and needs some time to mature. Particularly, there are currently no binary distributions (only source), its user interface is lacking (read: virtually non-existent), and there are some known (and probably unknown) stability/compatibility issues. Also, performance isn't fantastic yet, but the emulator should be playable at least.

That said, these things are bound to improve with time, and everyone is encouraged to [build the emulator](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy#building-and-running), give it a shot, and [report any bugs/feature requests](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

## Known game compatibility

| Game | USA | JP | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 3-D Tetris | | N/A | Uses bit string ops |
| Bound High! | x | N/A | ROM is both USA+JP |
| Galactic Pinball | x | x | |
| Golf | | | Uses bit string ops |
| Insmouse No Yakata | N/A | x | |
| Jack Bros. | x | x | |
| Mario Clash | x | x | |
| Mario's Tennis | x | x | |
| Nester's Funky Bowling | | N/A | Uses bit string ops |
| Panic Bomber | x | x | |
| Red Alarm | | | Uses bit string ops |
| SD Gundam Dimension War | N/A | x | |
| Space Invaders Virtual Collection | N/A | | Lazers aren't visible on most of the screen in "Virtual 3D" mode |
| Space Squash | N/A | | Game doesn't start; seems to be waiting on an interrupt (see commits [7423524](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy/commit/74235249a1abfca8d4b3d80e8c3c6b37230679a2) and [0ff9c61](https://github.com/emu-rs/rustual-boy/commit/0ff9c61efb188832680292a11c1a24c5c4f25360) for some investigation) |
| Teleroboxer | x | x | |
| V-Tetris | N/A | x | |
| Vertical Force | | | Enemies/powerups appear/disappear, first boss disappears and the game softlocks |
| Virtual Bowling | N/A | | Some graphical glitches and slowdowns in the intro sequence, possibly other bugs |
| Virtual Boy Wario Land | x | x | |
| Virtual Fishing | N/A | x | |
| Virtual Lab | N/A | x | |
| Virtual League Baseball | x | x | |
| Waterworld | x | N/A | |

## Building and running

Currently, the only dependency for building is Rust itself, which can be downloaded [here](https://www.rust-lang.org/downloads.html). Once that's installed, you can clone the repo, and simply `cargo build`/`cargo run` your way to victory! It's recommended to use the `--release` flag as well, as emulation can require a lot of CPU power, so we'll want all the compiler help we can get.

If you're new to using Cargo (Rust's build system), it's recommended to give the [Cargo Guide](http://doc.crates.io/guide.html) a quick skim.

## Contributing

Rustual Boy aims to be an open project where anyone can contribute. If you're interested, check [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

## License

Licensed under either of

 * Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
 * MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.
